# Linkage-Between-Personality-Traits
Data visualization project to uncover behavior patterns and correlations between traits and preferences among young people.

Every generation has unique interests, which can be used to identify trends. These trends can provide vital information for various aspects of life. By analyzing the results of the young people survey, we can provide a concrete visual representation of common traits among young people. 

The goal of this study was to uncover behavior patterns and correlations between different traits and preferences among 1,010 young people (aged 15-30) in Bratislava, Slovakia. The dataset is obtained on Kaggle. We used several computer-based technologies including Python, Orange, and Gephi to create various visualization to examine the linkage between different traits and preferences. Through dimensionality reduction by t-SNE and PCA along with hierarchical clustering, we found differences in music preferences in males and females. Specifically, we found that the female participants tend to enjoy music more than male participants. We also created network visualizations based on the survey responses to personality traits and music preferences and found the connection between different traits. Through community detection in the networks, we found five clusters each in the personality traits network and music preferences network, which coincides with results from previous studies.

These visualization techniques aided in improving our understanding of the relationships between the features. There are times when analyzing information for the purpose of gaining value and insight can become dull and boring. However, these tools have helped us achieve this goal while being presented with aesthetic visualizations to enhance our learning experience.
